>> Jem Young: But, generally, there's
gonna be stacks and stacks of servers.
So, if you want to picture your laptop or
your desktop or your computer as a server,
or even a cell phone as a server,
you're gonna have stacks and stacks and
stacks of these all networked together so
they can handle requests efficiently.
And servers are particularly built.
If you pay money for a server,
they're built particular ways that
consumer grade hardware is not.
For instance, they're gonna have
probably error correcting memory.
They're going to have faster CPUs
than generally are available.
They'll have like 40 or 50 core CPUs
which, for most people, would be complete
overkill because modern software doesn't
take advantage of that many cores.
It's multi threading is hard,
totally different course.
Is there a course on multi threading?
I'm not gonna teach that.
[LAUGH] That's gonna be way too hard.
But servers are built for these things,
and when you run an application on
a server, it automatically can fork
processes, it can fork commands,
it can handle requests in one thread and
spin off to another one.
But servers, essentially,
are custom built machines specifically for
disturbing files and
not necessarily interacting with as much.
Servers generally live in
a place called data centers.
Data centers are these racks and
racks and racks and
racks and racks and racks machines usually
run really, really cold environments,
just because computers run hot,
servers like to run cold.
They're usually clean,
so not a lot of dust.
Imagine if you have, I don't know,
what is this like, 10,000 fans running?
[LAUGH] And a little bit of dust gets
in there, it's gonna ruin your day.
So they're generally pretty clean.
Security on them is very tight.
Think of a bank, and then triple that, and
that's what securities
on data centers are.
Because this is information, this is
power, this is what the Internet runs on.
For instance,
a couple of years ago AWS went down.
So that's Amazon Web Server, that's
one of the biggest hosts in the world.
It's what Netflix uses,
what a lot of people use.
One of them went down and
the Internet went down essentially.
So we think of the Internet as these
distributed computers all around
the world, but we really are relying
on main data centers and
different routing networks, backbones.
There's like core parts of
the infrastructure that if they go down,
we're all sunk.
But I think the most notable thing that
I find interesting about data centers is
the amount of power they consume
is massive, city scale massive.
It doesn't look like this, but
if you have all these millions and
millions of cores running,
they're sucking up a lot of power.
And what you'll see now is Facebook,
they've built their own data centers.
Google has their own data centers.
Amazon has their own data centers.
And they're all specialized machines
specifically built for their applications.
But what a lot of them are doing,
which is good,
is they're building this renewable energy
and they're building next wind farms or
something like that because these eat so
much power.
That's totally a tangent on data centers.
But, generally, when you have requests,
it's going to hit a data center somewhere.
Some people like to host their own.
We'll talk a bit more about
the cloud in a second.
But will identify what it looks like.
This is the free open source image.
The ones from Google
are like very impressive.
They're much larger buildings.
So a data center is just this
collection of computers.
Often, they're shared between different
applications, different companies.
A lot of times you can rent one server or
a fraction of a server with the VPS.
Or sometimes you can own an entire data
center if you're a big enough company.
>> Jem Young: So
let's talk about the cloud.
Data centers are newer
thinking about computers and
data centers are actually fairly modern
invention, I say fairly, say 15, 20 years.
Before if I wanted to run a website or
host anything, I had a rack of computers
sitting here and literally if
someone says the server's down,
I had to go plug it back in like that.
That was the way servers used to work.
Then people said, yeah,
that's a hassle, servers are expensive,
the hardware can get out of date.
How do you take a server down
without taking everything down?
So we have the single data center so
someone else can answer someone
else's problem at this point, people that
are specialized in working with hardware.
And the great thing about
cloud computing and
data centers is they can be in
different parts of the planet.
So if I were hosting this video right now,
this course on my laptop,
the minute I go to lunch or
close my computer, everything goes down.
That's not good.
And also, if you're in say, Greenland,
yeah, if you're in like, say,
Greenland, I don't think
it's massive scale.
I'm starting to question this logo now,
but
let's say you're in London about there.
It's gonna take a lot of
hops to get over here.
So why not have a data center in,
I don't know,
Africa which is gonna
be a little bit closer.
You don't have to make
the hop across the Atlantic.
It's gonna be a little bit faster.
And that's the advantage of the cloud,
is that I can have the same application
running in different parts of the world.
And it's gonna be a little bit faster and
you're gonna reduce that lag
if you're a little bit closer.
Remember how we ran trace route
earlier and it did all those hops.
You generally want the least number of
hops because every hop is the chance for
something to go wrong or it's just slower
because there's still nanoseconds it takes
for a switch to intercept a request and
switch to the next one and the next one.
But the great thing about the cloud
is this idea of elastic computing.
What is elastic computing?
It's kind of what it sounds like but,
and you probably hear the phrase a lot,
what do you all think it is?
>> Jem Young: Anybody?
>> Speaker 2: Is it scaling,
like as needed or-
>> Jem Young: Yes, exactly right, Sam.
Yeah, exactly.
It's what it sounds like.
It's, it's elastic.
What's great about that is and
why data centers are great in the cloud
is great is I am I am Mark Urbanski.
I am big,
powerful CEO Frontend Masters.com,
and I'm getting a lot of traffic.
It's scaling scaling.
In the old days, what I had to do
was I had to buy more servers and
I had to buy more servers.
But if you have a data center we can
rent out, we can just say like, hey,
I need to allocate three more servers.
All right, cool.
Hit a button.
Done.
I need to scale down because it's
Christmas time and people don't study.
They don't do Frontend Masters
over Christmas or something.
We can just scale that back down.
So our costs can adjust with the traffic
rather than us being fixed with a certain
set of hardware that we're paying for,
maintaining and things like that.
You hear the phrase a lot elastic cloud
computing that's what that's referring to.
For instance, real life example, Netflix,
one of our busiest times
a year is Christmas.
People are home to families and you
know what people do with their families,
they don't want to talk to them.
They don't hang out.
So they're all watching Netflix in
their room on their phones doing what
families do.
So, it's one of our busiest
times of the year, so
what we do is we can set
the limits much higher.
We just scale up our servers.
So we just scale up all our servers
to handle this additional traffic.
And then once traffic starts to ramp down,
we just scale this back down.
So we're not paying for this unused
compute cycles that we don't need.
That's really powerful and that's a really
new idea in the world of computing.
It's just like this on
demand capacity as we need.
But, honestly, most of you,
and most people watching this,
you're never gonna need
a data center with a server.
If you do, nice job, you are killing it.
You're doing really great if you need
an entire data center, but most people,
we just need a tiny little
fraction of one server.
Because remember how I said
servers have 50, 60 hundred cores,
actually don't know what the limit is,
probably pretty high,
probably in the thousands for
you at the supercomputers.
Anybody know?
It's not important.
But what we need is we just probably need
a fraction of a fraction of a server.
And the server we're gonna create today
is gonna be one core on one server,
which is just like a fraction of
a fraction of a fraction of a server.
Because that's all we need, and
why pay for things we don't need?
And that's the idea behind cloud
computing in this capacity,
you just pay for what you need.
So what we do is we take a server,
we just slice it into little chunks and
these chunks can't talk to each other.
There's this idea of process isolation,
which is you're running
I like to party.com.
Don't know please don't go there.
I don't know what that website is like,
I take no responsibility for that.
But I wanna run Jovian.com,
we can run on the same server and
we don't even know that either,
and we just ran what we need.
And that's a really powerful idea
that I think is totally underrated.